# Music Genre Classification Based on Lyrics

With the rise of music digital streaming, the music industry has expanded to become a major part of modern lifestyles in many countries. Due to the expansion of music streaming services worldwide, we have witnessed an increase in the demand for advanced music classification methods, especially for music genre classification. Music genre classification for music information retrieval has become a requirement to keep up with the rise in the music industry. However, accurately pinpointing musical features to classify various genres is still a challenge. Earlier studies have shown various means and methods to classify genres based on linguistic and/or audio features. This report proposes various ways and means to predict the music genre of a song based on the lyrics by using natural language processing techniques to extract relevant features to identify the genre. Throughout the report, we outline the methodology in detail that includes several steps such as data preparation, filtering, encoding, and modeling. After experimenting with various machine learning models, we evaluated the performance of each model based on accuracy, hamming loss, recall, precision, and F1-score. After testing, the results show that BERT and Label Powerset using Random Forest Classifier were the top models for predicting genres based on their hamming loss scores. These models have the lowest hamming loss scores and the highest precision scores in comparison to the other models. Our choice of models proposes promising results and provides a foundation for future studies related to this topic.

_Check out the Jupyter notebook file and project report for more information_
